[MUSIC PLAYING]
Doesn't it say maybe start off with an op-con?
Well, that's fresh in our brain.
Good old knob con.
But I totally heard.
Jack off to the future.
Jacking house.
That was what the fifth knob con, I think total.
And the third for you and me in the second for you.
It was in a different hotel that did not like loud noises.
Yeah, that all was unfortunate.
But do you get the impression I just
didn't know what they were getting into?
The hotel just was just not prepared for--
Since we missed out on the first two, I don't know.
But I heard from someone else that that was the original location.
Oh.
So I would think they knew what they were getting into.
But maybe not.
I don't know.
Because the music got cut off.
And the one new thing that I really
liked about it, which was the bug out room,
got completely shut down throughout half of the day
on Saturday.
Yeah.
Which was unfortunate and wasn't open at all at night.
Which I guess if anyone who wasn't there,
it doesn't know what the bug out room was.
It was where anyone could bring in their gear and set up
and just jam at any point throughout the day.
But the hotel staff shut her down.
I wonder if the hotel got a little confused,
because they may have been presented as like,
oh, there's going to be a lot of manufacturers.
Maybe they thought it was going to be drier than that,
the sort of--
Just you know, of comforted and like talks in here all day.
Yeah, exactly.
So it'd be a real estate.
Yeah.
Which we should have just skipped.
Knock on and just gone straight to the flipper.
How's that?
Probably going to--
Maybe it's in the term right?
Probably a better fiscal decision.
Really spending hundreds of dollars on modules.
That's fair enough.
Yeah.
Although--
But probably not.
Probably not.
I wonder if I was randomly saying shit.
Those people were probably crying.
Crying and dumpsters right now for everybody that attended.
Trying to follow his advice and just--
None of this is working.
I don't think this was real.
There was a financial services like flipping houses,
conferences, and now contue.
Next to knock on.
Yeah.
No, it's be fair.
It was not part of the law.
Yeah.
Although they seemed intrigued--
That really?
By the room of noise next to them.
They were trying to give a conference.
We were saying too that there should be a way to swap modules
or a list.
Why don't we talk about that?
Yeah.
I don't remember that.
Even just the idea of just having an area of--
especially using something like Muffster or Facebook
or some other technology to just be like, I'm here.
This is stuff I have.
Come meet me here.
I'm interested in trades.
I'm interested in this.
I think they would have gone over really well.
Because it did seem like there was a ton of people
with their setups, brought their stuff out,
and even just got no great, was swapping things out.
At the con, really take advantage of everyone
just being fired up for like, I want this, I want this.
Oh, but I need this other module.
And someone else is sitting in a hotel room, three doors down,
wanting to get rid of that exact module.
It's just an missed opportunity.
Yeah, the year before I met a couple people up for some sales
that I made on the Muffboard, and they were like,
are you going to Nubcon?
I'm like, yeah.
So they were like, well, I'll save you on shipping.
I'll just meet you there.
And that worked out cool.
And yeah, it would definitely make
sense to have an area for people trading or selling.
Just for that purpose.
Anything like a swap meet type of--
Mm-hmm.
Makes sense in the future, for sure.
Outside the one room being totally off on its own
and kind of difficult to get to, purely
because I'm lazy and I don't want to walk,
it seemed like everything was laid out somewhat sensibly.
Like, there's a ton of stuff.
And it seems like it's getting bigger, way bigger
than it was last year.
I can't really gauge if it was bigger,
but it definitely felt more spaced out.
It was definitely less claustrophobic.
You didn't have to elbow through people
to get to a table to check out what you wanted to check out.
Last year, it definitely felt cramped in the main room.
Because there was the one main room,
and then there was the quiet room, which not too many people
utilized last year this year.
There was definitely more of that.
Yeah, but I totally agree that the idea of something
that's going later, even if you could
turn it down a little bit, I still
think it would have been-- there's a lot of people
that obviously wanted to hang out longer than that.
You could make the argument, like, oh, just stay in your room
and use headphones and be quiet until whenever you want.
But if they're going to have that conference room,
like, they should let people sit there until whenever.
It's not like-- it was the rowtiest crowd.
No, no.
And it's not like we needed full--
a lot of attention.
Just leave the power on.
We don't even light.
There weren't even lights on.
The ones out there.
There were some polite motherfuckers.
Yeah, the year before, they went--
that was at least until 1 AM.
I felt like in the main performance room,
and no complaints.
Yeah.
And it shut down.
No signs in the hallway.
Yeah.
Telling you to not make noise like it's a library.
But yeah.
That was as far as stuff you saw.
I feel like there was a lot of great stuff
to actually check out.
And it was on display there.
And this was the first time, a lot of time,
for a lot of stuff, being able to get our filthy paws on it.
Carbon.
That is as far as making notes for this.
That was the first thing.
The first thing.
Carbon.
That blew my mind.
Yeah.
It basically hits everything that I was looking for out
of engine with CV out of the gate,
not having to be an add-on.
And just the weirdly pleasant Kilpatrick style
of grid display.
And looking into it the second time
I went back and was screwing around with it.
And the guy was like, just giving me a little help.
Check this out.
Everything's just one or two buttons away.
It's not divey at all.
Which I was a little worried about,
because there was a tiny little things at the bottom.
It was just like, no, those are just letting you know
what's going on in the other seats.
Yeah, which is nice.
Yeah, it was like, this is really well thought out.
And it looks like an Atari Lynx?
Yes.
But not really.
Because you know, now I'm pissed that it doesn't.
That would be--
Why aren't you an Atari Lynx?
Our Trevor Graphics Express.
Either or?
Shit.
Now that I yanked the guts out of a carbon
and put it into one of those.
It's been brewing it.
Ask for support.
This is quite my warranty.
Yeah, I didn't get to have too much hands on time with it.
I just had the overview that the guy was doing.
But it seemed like the best of the two sequencer
modules from Kilpatrick that I have had hands on experience
with.
It had some elements of the pattern generator, which
was one of my favorites.
And they're just Kilpatrick sequencer.
Some of the generative functions of that
seemed to be in the carbon, which was real nice.
It's like a nice gel of the two together.
The USB host is brilliant.
Yeah.
That's awesome.
And the overview on the screen of everything is pretty nice.
That's a nice touch.
We'll be the next one though.
We varigate.
Yeah?
Yeah.
I also, I mean, sort of taking a step outside of the module
there, that dude's presentation.
Oh, yeah.
That was amazing.
It was a super in-depth, super--
it was not the broshoe level.
And I think that also helped with, hey, there's
a lot going on in this module.
And I walked up to him and I'm like, oh, that's cool.
It's a gate sequencer.
I wasn't super excited.
I left fired up for it.
Yeah.
That was Ben Davis, the guy responsible for making it.
So it was cool to see him explain his own creation there.
It felt like a lot of people in the Avcon just
had a representative there as opposed
to the person behind it.
So it was cool to see him pointing out what he felt
was the strong points and give a passionate presentation
of everything it was capable of.
Yeah, it would definitely--
it's on my to buy list for sure.
I really enjoyed the varigate for this really
expands on it.
I mean, it's not only just more tracks,
but just more functionality overall.
You get four additional 16-step tracks now
of probabilistic gates, plus two CV tracks
that you can assign to any of those tracks
or have free floating, I believe.
If you don't want it hard-paired with a gate track,
it can just be its own thing.
So it's got all the randomized functions saving.
Yeah, I don't know.
It's hard to think of anything bad about it.
It's just for the cost and for the size.
There's nothing like it, really.
Especially if you're not having the screen of any type,
really.
You can't do too much more without having some reference
point like that.
So it seems like a nice mix.
Even without a screen, too, it doesn't seem at all like
menu diving.
Yeah, exactly.
There's a couple combos you've got to do.
Whole two things at once, but everything's
laid out on the module panel itself,
saying what slider does what when you're holding it.
Like, I kind of missed my Turing machine,
and I think that would make me a lot less sad about it.
Yeah, definitely.
That is definitely the one thing, probably the top
of my list of the thing I regret getting rid of.
I didn't realize just how much I was using it.
And now, the varicade actually would be a pretty--
actually, I mean, it would be an amazing replacement for me.
Yeah, totally, especially with the quantization
on board and everything.
It's pretty dope.
How many times am I going to say dope?
Is there an ETA for the varicade?
Is it like--
I think--
--soon this week?
Oh, that's real soon.
Yeah, I was talking to Ben on Facebook.
He said he, I think, just got his production version of it.
And the first batch is going out from Dark Place,
I think, this week.
Oh, wow.
For our listeners, what does it actually say at state
as we reference it next week?
October 1st.
There we go.
Hey.
On the ball, they're correct.
I can easily do it.
The first day of the month.
I do it.
Wake up.
Yeah.
That's even--
Both hugs immediately.
Didn't take long.
Yeah, there seems to be a lot of stuff dropping right now.
Yeah.
Like early October.
Just got the new engine, OS.
Sorry, I didn't mean to cut you off.
But it just loaded it on before I came over here, which
is like ratcheting per step now, like repeats per step,
and like probability sequences and other fixes
to make it a lot easier to use.
Don't have to delete every pattern manually now
if you want to clear stuff.
So yeah, and it fixes the TV bug thing that I ran into.
So I got to check that out.
How easy is it to update?
Is it--
Yeah, it's USB cable.
And like the-- it just uses the teensy app.
So you just load the hex file.
And once it connects, it just uploads it.
Is that a keeper for you?
I don't know.
Like, they'll be straight up.
Like, it's really good.
And I like where he's going with it.
I don't know.
I remember it's kind of on defense,
but more--
Yeah.
I thought the carbon was like--
I thought the carbon was going to get me there for a second.
And I did almost get a used one when I was like,
I kind of--
I don't want to learn anything new right now.
You know, that's not a good reason, but I just don't want to.
Do you have the CV expansion for the engine?
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah, that's-- I found that bug in it.
So that's supposedly fixed now.
Even though I deleted that pattern,
and like, I don't-- I can't even recreate it anymore.
So you're not able to actually test.
I guess I could.
It was like the lowest note possible
that was out of the range of like below a C0.
Because you can do that with the transpose.
Do like a C0, but then transpose it down.
I think you can do that.
And then like, crashed it.
Because it did not handle that range.
Does it just drop it to C0 or does it actually go--
I think now I would probably just--
I would hope it would just drop it to C0 or something.
But yeah, it's awesome.
But I don't know.
I'm fickle with sequencers.
And the MIDI box is kind of just ruling that whole area
from here right now.
But it has like eight CV gate pairs.
So that's kind of hard to be mad at too.
Because the MIDI box, I have to go through my Kilpatrick MIDI
converter, which is sweet, but not eight.
MIDI to Cv-- eight pairs of MIDI CV gate.
Also the MIDI box is enormous.
That is definitely for home.
Yeah.
If I would do like a techno live thing,
I would probably bring it out.
Because I do all the work like in there.
But the sequence isn't that.
But yeah, I don't--
it scares me to bring it out too.
It's definitely very DIY.
But it's robust.
Like it will.
It'll hold up to it.
But I don't know.
It's like DIY, you know?
Which is kind of why I have the engine too, just like as a backup.
But that's really paranoid.
But I just want to be able to work if it fucks up, which
did happen with one release.
But then the next release, you fixed everything that
was like corrupting my files.
So I don't know.
I saw the-- so for our listeners, Nick is playing.
Is it Wednesday?
Oh, yeah.
Wednesday's Wednesday at the Pittsburgh modular thing.
The fifth.
Yeah.
I mean, actually enough to see me do a yell by then.
But if it is--
If it is, someone should check it out.
Jump through the internet and go to Pittsburgh.
Exactly.
And if you're-- oh, also our listeners,
this is being recorded in Pittsburgh, which we haven't
established anything.
Like there's no baseline to that later.
For what we're doing here we are, where we're at, time and place.
We don't really know ourselves.
No, I didn't know what day it was.
It's like a flash mob podcast.
Surprised for podcasting.
[LAUGHTER]
But I noticed that the engine wasn't on your setup.
No.
But I thought it was going to be at first.
And then I didn't want to bring a terrible amount of things.
And honestly, I've never used it live.
And I've never used it with the lights off.
But there's a lot of shit on there.
There's very menu-divey.
You have to know what you're doing, kind of.
And the Octatrack, the MIDI stuff that I'm doing to sequence
the modular like that I could be pretty drunk and still use that.
Not that I'm going to be drunk at the show, but I know how to use it.
But you will be drunk at the show.
Probably.
No.
I hope not.
I will.
Yes, I will be.
And I decided to, unlike previous sets, that I would come up with a setup.
And then I would stop fucking with that setup, because I only had a week to do something to.
So I wanted to change it really badly this morning.
And I didn't buy myself.
It's a bad habit.
It's a terrible habit.
It's terrible.
Don't do what I do.
We'll do it live.
Yeah.
This will be live.
I'm trying to set up kits on things that I can play.
I have a little bit of fallback, but I really kind of want to just, oh, I'm actually going
to play this stuff and not really try to play some shit that I made with it.
You mean on the Octa?
Yeah, on the Octa of the rhythm and the modular.
The modular all kind of switched sequences and then like braids, patches, and then the
by similar to Teratuss, Alter, will be like doing drum stuff simultaneously going into
the Octa track and I'll just kind of play with that.
And that seems to be working out so far in practice.
Like this is all based on what the practices have been like.
Speaking of the drum module, which again was something you fucking amazing.
Yeah, another knob con sort of discovery.
Oh, yeah.
So, like drum synth in a module with envelopes, crazy variations.
Sequencing the modes now is like ridiculous from a sound design and like making a track
perspective like fucking amazing.
Yeah, because I think you kind of get like a drum module and you know right away, like
you're going to, you see the expiration date for that module and you get it.
You're like, yeah, I'm going to use this, but it, it's either going to hit forever or
it's going to get really annoying at some point.
I'm going to sell it.
But that thing I doubt, I doubt I'll run out of steam with that.
It just seems, especially everything has CV input.
So it's like fucking, yeah, it's like, yeah, you can get endless just triggering the thing.
But then you start to throw CV at everything.
Right.
It's like endless, endless sweet spots.
Yeah.
Which is not common for most drum modules.
Most of them you find like your one spot, maybe a couple more and you think you're so
okay, I could probably just sample this and be done with it.
This thing, it definitely begs to be like used with control voltages in real time.
Yeah.
It's totally, I think really well thought out.
Like I own the original for a while and it had its moments, you know, but like this just
takes it to a whole other level.
Being able to see the modes and the range and the fact that he added, you know, a new
mode in there.
I can't remember off him what that is.
Oh, the liquid skin, right?
Like what's the new one?
And also the Alto mode, which is great for like the kick range.
So you can do bass kick and then like all out high end screechiness with this thing.
Yes.
And then you can do a little bit of a bass machine for sure.
Yeah.
Can you get like other type of precautions?
Can you make a nice snare?
Can you make a nice call?
Absolutely.
Like is it?
So actually just having a rack of five or six blows would be.
Because the thing like if you don't, when you get it, if you don't turn up the decay,
you'll think like, why is that fucking noise playing all the time?
Because it's that noise is blended in there unless you turn the attack up, sorry, the
attack.
And then it kind of goes away and you just hear the oscillator sound.
But if you turn that attack down and it's layering, that noise on top of it, that's also kind
of tracking the pitch.
I think that's how it's working.
Yeah.
Going clockwise from zero to 12, you're doing a type of noise blend on the attack knob
and then everything after 12.
Exactly.
It's like real attack on the oscillators.
And the, even the morph is just thought out well.
Like it'll take you from sign through all the other wave shapes and then if you go all
the way clockwise, you're back to sign.
So if you're hitting that with CV, you get smooth blending all the way through.
It's pretty well, well thought out.
Yeah.
Cause even in, I think in the different modes, it changes what it morphs through like which
waveforms cause the spread, I think kind of moves it like it's one to six oscillators.
And he kind of, it's all modal.
So like a bunch of different things change when you change like morph depending upon
the mode.
Like it's all kind of tweaked and tuned.
I kind of like, I hope more people go in that way where it's like modal stuff that kind
of does a lot of things behind the scenes cause a lot of the analog stuff is kind of
done.
This is the shit you want out of a digital model.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Like if you're going to bother to go that route, go this route.
No.
Yeah.
I don't really want a digital mode filter emulation.
Exactly.
Interesting in any way to me.
Yeah.
He does a great job with the manual too.
Like yeah.
Very well written goes, you know, talks about the inspiration behind it and all that.
Which it's cool to get, you know, the manufacturers take on what the hell's going on behind it.
Same with the, the, the low kerik or low kelok.
Yeah.
We all ended up coming out of there with a noise engineering model.
One of the, the alters and you got the, however the hell you pronounce it.
It's a classic something.
Yeah.
I forget that.
But the manual for that is a, it's astounding.
I mean it has like the actual like math, but it was the signals and the calculus for each
of the different modes.
Oh, well.
I mean, and yeah, they also included references to the research papers that they were looking
at the white papers or the books they were reading.
I was like, this is, I don't know.
Yeah.
I have so far been nothing but impressive noise engineering.
I agreed.
I didn't know what the hell he was talking about there.
I appreciated that.
I was in there.
I was like, okay.
Now, and he, he's even gone in interviews saying like, you know, he was really inspired
by all tech or early industrial and things like that.
And I think it really shows in the stuff that he's putting out right now.
It's most of it is digital and it's, it's the good side of digital, you know.
Totally agree.
Yeah.
There's one, that like one surgeon record that came out.
There's a track that starts with A. So every time I plug my iPod in or phone in the car
and iPod into the car, like plays the first alphabetical track, no matter what, because
fucking Apple, right?
And it's always like this kick drum sound that I know now after I got that module, I'm
like, oh yeah, that's the fucking best stimulus.
Like no question that kick drum was made from that thing.
Like the way it aliases and the way he shifts the alias frequencies depending upon the mode
stuff to like, so you can hear it.
So it's not just always in the high range, like alias saying that was fucking brilliant.
Yeah, my first run with it when I own the version one, not the altar, I mainly got it
for that type of like metallic, you know, percussion, FM wave folding, nastiness.
And I got, it did that well, but I kind of got bored with it and I ended up selling
it.
And like this version can do that and, you know, be a great kick or be great synth all
in one.
So I think it really took it to the next level and makes me want to own more than one
at some point.
Yeah, so he's got like another one in the works like another modal digital type thing
that like I guess he just moved his facility or whatever to some other place.
He's got a lot of logic based things going on.
Two modules I think were inspired by Aaron of Venetian snares.
With I think gate modules, gate generators, logic, rhythmic generators, I guess you could
call them, didn't get a chance to play with any of those at NOPCON.
But it's the type of thing that I would really like to get some hands on, you know, just
to wrap my head on what they actually do first.
You need one after Derek too.
Yeah, that's the manual one.
Yeah, punch everything in finger triggered gates.
They weren't actually at NOPCON, right?
I mean, there were just a couple of people that had the modules, but there was no presence.
Right, which was unfortunate.
I would love to play with a whole rack of noise engineering stuff.
Oh, I would actually interview.
Yeah, also I just want to get drunk.
Just hang out and just that seems like a really good time.
Talk about IDM and industrial.
So what's next?
What's next in the queue?
I do want to talk about NOPCON things.
Yeah, I think there's a lot we could...
I think so.
Look on.
We barely really touched a scratch of surface on.
Oh, I'm going on.
Yeah, NOPCON.
NOPCON.
Oh, I mean, I guess the other thing to do is like, what's...
We're talking about some of the highlights.
It's only fair to talk about some of the negatives.
Yeah, what was something that maybe was disappointing or surprising?
I don't want to hate too much, but it would be cool to see musical acts that were more
like working a modular type thing.
I didn't get to see that as much.
Did you talk about the Saturday night?
Yeah, sorry.
The Saturday night acts.
I did not see Friday night acts.
Full disclosure.
Yeah, full disclosure.
None of us went to the banquet.
Was that what it is?
No, we're not banquet attendees.
I don't think they have a vegetarian dish.
That's my...
Yeah, surface excuse, but I don't like to go to things like that.
It's kind of pricey, especially if there's nothing on the menu for you.
In my opinion, but...
Ooh, that one's good.
Do you want to burn it over?
Yeah, yeah.
I've got this one.
It's great.
It's fantastic for a love.
Yeah, I think there was one of my top complaints though.
If you had no sprot.
Of course, it's not sprot.
That's sprot too?
Like beer?
I think so.
Is it good?
I'm really interrupting you just so I can ask Nick if he had a beer.
I don't think I had that beer.
It's...
You should try it out.
It's really good.
Okay, Greg, what were you saying?
I was going to say the banquet...
The third time I'd been there and the third time I'd opted out of the banquet just because
it's expensive and there's only one special guest that while I have respect for was not
really feeling spending like $50 to hear or speak.
That ties in with my other complaints.
There's a lot of focus there on Moog and I guess if you want to call it East Coast synthesis.
I would like to see just as much focus on more experimental speakers and just maybe
live acts.
It doesn't have to be performances but anything that is related to things on the other's
side of the scale.
Like one of the guests I would have loved to have seen would have been what's his name?
Nick Gordon, the guy who just did the Dune soundtrack.
Oh yeah.
He's going crazy.
He's been posting videos on YouTube that are not necessarily music videos or anything
to the soundtrack of Dune but just him going crazy in the studio.
Lots of modular gear, lots of even vintage gear.
He has a poly box in there.
Shit ton of pedals.
Everything that has a tube in it, whether it's a pedal or a module he seems to have.
It would have been really cool to hear someone like that just speak about their creative
process.
It's a very mixed crowd there.
There's a lot of people there who are obviously old school and there's a lot of people there
who were showing up wearing skinny puppy shirts and shit like that.
Skinny Pablo.
It's like a too dark taco.
So you got a, I think, knob con is finding itself in a unique position now because there's
nothing else like it that is that accessible.
It's in the middle of the country.
A lot of people are coming from all over, like ourselves.
We drove eight hours to get there.
It's not industry centric.
It's not.
It is not NAM.
Props to it for that.
Although it did seem a little heavier with that this time.
It was more manufacturer friendly, which is cool.
But without sacrificing something, we could still go get a ton out of it.
It seemed like it was a cool wide spectrum.
Exactly.
I feel like the crowd is a wide spectrum, but the event itself isn't catering to that.
I feel like it can be now.
It's gotten to the size and scale that it can definitely do both.
Mix old school with new school presentations and performances.
I don't think anyone's going to feel slighted if they do.
There's enough people there from both sides of the spectrum.
Yeah.
I think too, that plays to go later, do things until two in the morning.
Sure.
Because again, there's people coming from all over.
You're in the middle of an industrial park.
It hits an nine o'clock.
What are you going to do?
Right.
You just have a bunch of drunken nerds stuck in a hotel bar.
You've got to have something to do.
We used to feel like I'm in the suburbs again.
I'm like, I'm going to do something bad.
I just want to start breaking shit.
Let's go through rocks at cars or something.
Props to a modular, bad end.
For having that DIY set up where you could buy stuff.
Kids being able to be purchased that is good.
It's in the cube.
It's quite the tease to buy a new gear and then not be able to play with it until you get
home and three days later.
You have a room where people can just go and jam out with their new toys or whatever
set up they brought.
I think that was a good concept.
It just wasn't executed well enough.
Yeah.
Great.
Speaking of the DIY room and the builder set up they had.
Oh, yeah.
That was awesome.
Yeah.
I built the DPLPG dual pass-of-low pass gate.
That was awesome.
Cool thing was seeing some dad like teach his seven-year-old daughter to go, "Oh, solder
a module."
That's awesome.
That's pretty sweet.
But yeah, more of that, the DIY thing was totally cool.
I just ended up talking to a bunch of people while I was making the module.
They fucked up your kit.
So, we couldn't get there, but they were totally cool about it too.
That module had a dude who props to him.
His refund to me, the note for it just said, "I'm a dick."
That was nice.
Well, he oversold it, right?
Yeah.
The DIY room was so popular that they actually oversold their kits.
And we were like half hour, 40 minutes late.
I mean, it was a good way to know we totally were.
I just didn't think we were coming.
Yeah, especially the DIY thing, it's like a crazy, sweet spot that many people don't
know now, especially now, with even five years ago, there weren't as many.
There were a fraction of the amount of kits you could get for everything.
Yeah.
And even the kit that threw whole clouds, I was laughing, "I go that THC module, ha ha ha."
Well, it's like threw whole clouds module that's half the cost, and that's fucking awesome.
And also, they are making kits, full kits, so you don't have to necessarily source them
like you used to.
Yeah.
A lot of it seemed geared to introductory, not only DIY, but modular in general.
And there were people there who didn't even have a module.
The one guy I was talking to was outside of the room, he just stumbled upon knob con
in an advertisement.
It's not something that he was planning to come to, and he read that they had DIY stuff,
and he hadn't picked up a soldering iron in a decade, and he said, "Fuck it," and he
soldered some shit.
It was like, "That's pretty cool."
That's amazing.
Yeah.
Because it's not that hard at the end of the day.
If you can build a piece of Ikea furniture, you can solder something, too.
It's not that hard.
No, but it has a reputation of being.
It was very difficult, and it was very like an error-prone thing.
And no.
Yeah, I find it completely relaxing now, except when I fuck up.
But, okay, so we've touched on some of the stuff we didn't like about knob con overall.
We've talked about the DIY room.
Let's talk about some of the reveals, I guess, that we encountered there, because we haven't
touched upon that.
There was a lot.
And there were some big name ones.
For me, the two big ones was the Matrix Brute and the 909.
Oh, yeah.
Those were the two big things that I was like, "What wasn't just the 909?"
The vocoder, VP03.
Yeah, they had the vocoder.
Yeah, the VP.
The 303 and the 909.
That's all it wants.
But it's a gabber enthusiast.
The 909.
That was the most important thing.
I don't know.
Just one time.
The gabber kick.
Original.
The Matrix Brute.
I was glad that we were there early to get a quiet one-on-one or one-on-three.
Some brilliant things about it a lot.
It was Matrix.
Very smart.
It's enormous in real life.
Yeah, it's huge.
It is...
That was sort of the first...
My first impression was, "This is way bigger than I thought it was going to be.
I knew it was going to be a big thing, but this is..."
It gave me anxiety a little.
Yes.
I was like, "No, I don't want to own shit like that."
Yeah.
I have to...
I don't know.
Restructure a whole studio or a beast of a machine.
It was impressive sound-wise and just functionality.
Mm-hmm.
I tell it.
Everything worked that the guy was showing us.
It worked well.
Everything's up front.
You know what I mean?
Yes.
I mean, I think it's a great thing.
I think it's a great thing.
I think it was a great thing.
fucking amazing. Oh really? Yeah. And so far, you're here and some change in on the road to, let me
check them out. No it's huge. It'll never leave that rack, right? That's on my room. But in any
case, I mean, it sounded fine. I wasn't blown away, but I wasn't disappointed either. Yeah, I think
the matrix group kind of, as far as big since ago, yeah, stole the show. Yeah, definitely. It was
located directly across from it. So that had my attention more. One theme from this year's
knob con two was like tiny little screens. Yeah, it's definitely your rack tiny little screens.
Yeah, more of that. I feel like technology has finally reached a point where it's, you know,
feasible. Yeah, tiny little screens. Tensey being ridiculously powerful, the new like super
cheap arm processors. That seems like it's going to keep innovation going and making things cheaper.
Yeah, it's awesome. Cheap arm also. I mean, cool. You got X and Y then a couple of months,
Z is going to come out and to have this, have this thing that, and you're not, you're not starting
from scratch. You're not getting something new. You're not, you know, you can take advantage of
all of the things you've learned. You spent all the time with a piece of gear and someone's adding
new shit to it. You can now take advantage of that. And you're like, you're moving in lockstep
with someone else who's making the platform more interesting. Yeah, like Neutron Sound Oregon.
That's perfect example. Yes. We could do a poll episode on that module, which is still
fine. New things on like two nights ago. I was like, damn it. Things amazing. And even Neutron's
a good example too, because the latest version, I tried it out and I didn't like it and I went back
and I'm like, okay, cool. That's not, that's not where I want to go. I still have that choice.
I can be like, this is, this is, this is the spot that I think is that you nailed it.
See, I used to be, now I'm all in the latest version. I'm like, oh, I get it now and I'd like to,
like, but yeah, it was the same way. It's nice that you can just pull on that, you know,
pull on the Git repo. Yeah. It's, I mean, new capabilities for a module.
Exactly. It's a GitHub. There's a GitHub that's, I'll reap, I'll reap before it. That's,
I'm a huge fan of that. I'm the same here. Like all my mutable stuff, pretty much. I'm running the
alternative firmware is on. Oh, you got the parasite? Yeah. For braids. Yeah. I think there's an
alternative for braids, right? Yes. I'm not right. I tried it, wasn't too into it.
Went back to the factory. What didn't you like about it? It was a minute ago. I think it's just
because I use braids so much that I kind of know everything secondhand and loading on some firmware
that switched that up, even if it added some functionality was throwing me off my game and
I just don't feel like adapting to it. Yeah. I feel like braids as it is factory, it's pretty solid.
Yeah. You know, like just, it's, I utilize every mode within that thing. You know, I mean, all the,
you can get it low-fi, the drift mode, the, what is the macro mode, you know, all that shit. Like,
I can just, I can navigate that module with my eyes closed pretty much. So switching it up wasn't,
it wasn't really worth it to me. But for everything, I was like my clouds and all that stuff. Yeah,
definitely one. Parasite's on there. And I'm not at the latest parasite on my clouds.
Me either. I don't want to be calibrated. Right. It seemed like I wasn't super into the new features
on the surface. Yeah. Indeed. Yeah. I, I read them. I'm like, okay, that's cool. But I'm pretty
solid with where it's at right now. Yeah. Same. I think it's 1.8. Yeah. Parasite. I think so.
Yeah. And sort of the opposite of that is, I know like the, the audio damage sequencer,
sort of the opposite side of that is there was a lot of promise. There's a lot of cool stuff that
could come out of it and then it didn't. So out of the box, it was okay. And the idea was like,
this is going to be something that's going to be sure worked on, it's going to be evolving and all
this. And, and when it didn't, it, it doesn't work necessarily as a platform. It doesn't, it
isn't that thing that you're going to follow. And you're going to, you know, keep, keep up with
like the developments and sure, you're going to have input like, Hey, it'd be cool if you can do the
X, Y and Z or you can do this. And for sequence or one, it didn't reach my expectations of it.
That's for sure. I mean, communication with the auto damage people on muffler at first was
pretty good. Like they were asking everybody what features they wanted. I know, I remember,
I found a couple bugs, a lot of other people found, you know, some small bugs posted on the forums
and they like patched it within, you know, weeks came out with a new firmware. And that was cool.
They were, they were fixing things and adding in small things that people were asking for
at first. But there was still a lot of things that people, I think felt like was promised.
The sequence or one that never came about. Right.
A lot of that was mostly the generative stuff. I mean, you can't do some generative things with it,
but the way it was being discussed, it was like, yes, we're going to go this route and it'll be
soon. And then like, you know, weeks turned into months, months turned into a year. And it just kind
of like, you know, the updates were getting fewer and fewer farther between. Yeah. And still didn't
see the level of stuff that I think we all expected from that, you know. And I don't know,
personally, I sold mine. You know what I mean? Eventually I went with the Stilson hammer mark
too instead. But I felt like right out of the bat, right out of the gate rather, that kind of had
more or promising to more. Yeah. But I mean, like, and I never had that. But for me, the ZDSP
from tip top was early on when I first got it, it had incredible promise. And then there was this
huge gap where, oh yeah, there was nothing really came out. And now there's now a ton of stuff. So
it's finally delivering on that promise. But like a lot of that is also not necessarily coming from
tip top. Right. I wonder if audio damage would benefit from opening that up, going like, hey,
we can only do so much. Other people that are fired up to do this probably never happen. Yeah,
because their code is their code. Like, right. I think they use the same, you know, platform,
I should say, across all their effects units. And like a lot of that is ported code from their VSTs.
Right. Their software. And like, you know, that's that's their bread and butter right there.
Like Sean Costello from Voila. That's his bread and VSTs were his bread and butter. And then he moved
those to ZDSP. Like the XLR draw machine, they're like different forks of that whole thing that do
different stuff. I've never even played with some of them that do like different generative stuff. But
on the whole, some of those features that other people made made it into the main trunk.
Sometimes the best ideas are the simplest.
Like, ending this podcast.
[Music]